---
title: Express.js - I
date: "2020-02-01T02:21:32.169Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "express-01"
category: "Express"
tags:
  - "Express"
  - "Node"
description: "A deeper look into Express.Js"
socialImage: "/media/image-3.jpg"
---

Let's go over Express.js

### Express HELLO WORLD Example
Express is a routing and middleware web framework.
	Essentially a series of middleware function calls
	(just a bunch of functions between two points)

```javascript
const express = require('express')
const app = express()
const port = 3000

app.get('/', (req, res) => res.send('Hello World!'))

app.listen(port, () => console.log(`Example app listening on port ${port}!`))
```

The Node.js version of this would be:

### Node HELLO WORLD Example
```javascript
const http = require('http');

const hostname = '127.0.0.1';
const port = 3000;

const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
  res.statusCode = 200;
  res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/plain');
  res.end('Hello World');
});

server.listen(port, hostname, () => {
  console.log(`Server running at http://${hostname}:${port}/`);
});
```

Eagle eyed readers will see that express GETs the '/' directory and responds with ('Hello World!')

## Express Routing
	
`app.get('/', (req, res) => res.send('Hello World!'))`
How an application responds to a client request to an endpoint ('/' or path)

app. METHOD ('path', handlerFunction(req, res) => '' ))

Here is more information on these kinds of requests:

- GET is used to request data from a specified resource.
	- query string (name / value pairs ) sent in URL of a GET request
		/query/string.php?name=this&that=somethingelse
	- can be cached
	- requests remain in browser history
	- can be bookmarked
	- should never be used when dealing with sensitive data
	- have length restrictions
	- only used to request data (not modify)
	
- POST is used to send data to a server to create/update a resource.
	- stored in the req.body of the HTTP request
	- never cached
	- does not remain in the browser history
	- cannot be bookmarked
	- have no restrictions on data length
	
- PUT is used to send data to a server to create/update a resource.
	- different from POST, requesting PUT multiple times will always
		have the same result, POST will create the same resource
		multiple times.

- HEAD is almost identical to GET, but without the response body.
	- ex. if GET /users returns a list of users
		HEAD/ users will make the request but will not return the list of users
		
- DELETE deletes the specified resource
- OPTIONS describes the communication options for the target resource

[More posts on Express](../tag/express)