---
title: React App & Movie API - I
date: "2020-02-01T22:00:32.169Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "reactmovie-01"
category: "React"
tags:
  - "React"
  - "JavaScript"
  - "API"
  - "REST"
description: "We will be going over how the sample React movies app from my website works. The posts will go over props, state, asynchronous javascript (promises), and refactoring the project into using async/await, Redux, and Hooks"
socialImage: "/media/image-3.jpg"
---
[How this React App gets Movie data from a RESTful API](https://rbaek.dev/projects/movie-app/)

This post will assume you know about JSX, basic React app architecture and javascript.

In this post I will be going over props and state in React. 

In the next post, I will go over how to get data from a RESTful API using promises to complete a functioning React movies app. 

Then we will change those promises to use async/await and discuss the benefits of doing so. After that we will explore React Redux for state management and how React Hooks come into play as well.

<i>Before all that though, let's get acquainted with React props and state.</i>

In React, you will have components that either, have state, or don't have state.

State is an object of a component that holds values and those values can change. 
It is considered good practice, not to directly change (mutate) the object and its values directly. 
Then you can have a history of the data changes and a predictable state. 
This is called immutability in which you are making and mutating copies 
of the previous state and leaving the previous state(s) as immutable objects. ( costing some extra memory )

Let's go over two common ways that state would be declared in a React component.
```jsx
class myReactComponent extends React.Component {
state = {
    matterState: 'liquid',
    particlesPerSqNano: (this.props.someValue * 2000)
    }
render() { 
return ( // some stuff 
)}
```
or 

```jsx
class myReactComponent extends React.Component {
constructor(props) {
    super(props)
    this.state = {
    matterState: 'gas',
    particlesPerSqNano: (props.someValue * 2000)
    }
}
render() { 
return ( // some stuff 
)}
```
Woah, so what's all this `props`, `this.props`, `this.state`, no this. `state` stuff going on here.

Well, these two are just two ways of writing the same thing, dont' get confused now!

Both ways are talking about `this.` component's state and the props that were passed down to `this.` component.

TBC..

[More posts on React](../tag/react)